Below, the methods used for our analysis of truncation mutations in the MSI subtype will be outlined. We began with a list of proteins observed to have altered cis protein levels. This included ARID1A, RBM27, INPPL1, JAK1, and FBNI, which were observed to have reduced cis protein levels, as well as CTNNB1, TP53, and CCND1, which were observed to have increased cis protein levels. It was noted that several of the genes with reduced cis protein levels were highly mutated in the MSI subtype, so we examined whether the reduction in protein levels in these proteins was due to truncating mutations.
To analyze the effect of truncation mutations on these proteins, we created plots displaying protein levels for different mutation groups. To do this, we used the compare mutations method in our CPTAC python package. This formatted our data in a dataframe containing, for each patient, their protein level for the selected protein, and the mutation status for the corresponding coding gene. Additionally, we used the CPTAC clinical data to include in this dataframe the MSI status of each patient. We then used the seaborn library to generate boxplots, displaying the protein level for the wildtype, truncating mutation, and other mutation groups, in both the MSI and MSS subtypes. 
In addition to altered protein levels, several proteins were observed to have altered phosphorylation levels. ARID1A, AHNAK, KMT2D, FLNA, and ADD3 showed reduced phosphorylation levels, while CTNNB1 showed increased phosphorylation levels. Through a similar process, we created plots to examine phosphorylation levels of the given protein in the various mutation groups, in both the MSI and MSS subtypes. To do this, we again used the CPTAC compare mutations method, although this time passing in phosphorylation data, rather than proteomic data. This formatted our data in a dataframe containing, for each patient, their phosphorylation levels at each phosphorylation site in the protein, as well as the mutation status of the corresponding coding gene. Again, we used the CPTAC clinical data to include the MSI status of each patient in this dataframe. Next, at each phosphorylation site, we split the dataframe into two groups, one where the gene was mutated, and the other without any gene mutation. We used the scipy.stats library to do a t-test on the phosphorylation levels in these two groups, and recorded which of all the phosphorylation sites had the smallest p-values, corresponding to which sites had the most significant difference in phosphorylation levels between the mutated and wildtype groups. We used these 5 phosphorylation sites for our plots. We then used the seaborn library to generate boxplots for these 5 sites, displaying phosphorylation levels for the wildtype, truncating mutation, and other mutation groups, in both the MSI and MSS subtypes. 